# models-to-minecraft
Autobuilder.ahk allows the user to select a 3-D .obj model and converts it into a Minecraft structure. Mosaic_Maker.ahk is the 2-D version of this, and it allows the user to convert an image file (.jpg or .png) into a vertical Minecraft mosaic. These programs work by categorizing each Minecraft block by its average RGB values, and evaluating the image (or 3-D texture) file pixel by pixel finding nearest color matches. For 3-D modeling, the mathematical operations are done on the model files to convert them into voxels, rather than a polygon mesh. 

Both projects require prior installation of AutoHotKey's [MySQL API]([url](https://www.autohotkey.com/boards/viewtopic.php?style=7&t=429)) and [GDI+ library]([url](https://github.com/mmikeww/AHKv2-Gdip)), which can be installed into the same directory as the AHK files. These files are not included in the repository as I am not the owner. MySQL is also required in order to setup the SQL library, which is used to store all of the Minecraft block names

To run, identify the section of the .ahk code that defines the model/image file path and replace the directory with that of your own model/image. In MySQL, extract the .sql database to your device and modify the file path within the code if necessary. Generation works best within a Superflat Minecraft world. Upon opening a world, pause your game and run the AutoHotKey script that corresponds with your task. This program will spam in-game commands that summon in the structure block by block. 
